[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: So
now we're gonna talk about templates,
one of the most awesome things
about front-end frameworks.
That's always the unique thing
about front-end frameworks,
it's like, how do they do their templates?
So, I think this is pretty cool.
If you're familiar with Angular 1,
you'll see some things that
you're kind of, okay, I get it.
But most of it's like that's not
even valid, how are they doing that?
But, it's valid.
Trust me.
[LAUGH] I looked it up.
[LAUGH]
>> Lukas: On the internet.
>> Scott Moss: I was like, that's no,
no, they, no.
Okay, it works, never mind.
Cool, so templates.
A lot of things when we
talk about templates.
Here's some of the main points, the crux.
We have interpolation, which is not new.
Every template system,
that's the base of a template system,
all the way down to
a small one like Lodash.
So, we have interpolation,
use the same syntax.
Method binding, property binding and
two way binding.
So, we'll talk about the differences
between those three, and
really get into it.
And we have this hashtag operator,
which is new.
An asterisk operator, which is new.
And then, Elvis operator which is
actually what they call it on Angular
docs.
>> Lukas: But
that's been around since like the 50s.
>> Scott Moss: It's been
around a while.
>> Speaker 3: It's shows up once in
a while.
>> Lukas: So write on the wall.
Lukas made the Elvis joke.
>> Scott Moss: So,
we'll talk about that stuff.
>> Speaker 3: Leave the building.
>> Scott Moss: So here's a little graphic
that Lukas just did so well.
He's an artist.
That's going to, it's actually, I think
you guys got a graphic earlier today.
This is a little piece from it.
This just kinda goes through
what the template, and
what's happening between the template and
the component and the relationship there.
So property binding is,
most of the data's unidirectional, so
it's going one direction with the,
there's one of one.
But we'll get to that in a minute.
So, property binding comes
from the component, and
it binds to properties in the template,
and not attributes.
It's very important that
we separate the two.
Properties are part of the DOM,
attributes are part of HTML.
Two different things.
Now, some people get confused because most
properties have mappings to attributes.
So that's like,
it's binding to the attributes.
It's not.
It's binding to properties.
Very important that you realize that,
cuz some of them don't switch over,
like col span.
There's no property for that, but
there's an attribute for that.
And stuff like that.
Text content.
There's a property for that, but
there's not an attribute for that.
So they don't really match.
So we're binding some properties,
we're not binding to attributes.
There are some attributes binding that
we can do, that Angular provided for us.
And we can talk talk those a little bit.
But we're binding to properties one way.
And then, event binding is
when we bind to an event that
is secured either from the DOM or
an event that we created ourselves.
A unique event, or
a new event that we made.
And then,
our component can respond to that.
And that's pretty much how templates and
components work.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions on that?
Almost the same as Angular 1, pretty much.
>> Scott Moss: So, interpolation.
Up top, we see the values
between the two mustaches there.
Unidirectional, going straight to
the template from the component.
Properties use the square brackets.
And we'll get into more of
the syntax in a little bit.
But also, like interpolation above it,
it's gone from the component
to the template.
Events are going the other way.
So, events are, come from the templates
and we handle them in the component.
And then below, we have the one
example of the two way data binding,
which is what we're used to in Angular 1,
where it just goes both ways.
Which is really, really handy for forms.
>> Scott Moss: Probably the only reason to
use two way data binding is for forms.
I can't think of any other way,
any other reason why you would use it.
In my opinion.
>> Scott Moss: Any
questions on this stuff?
>> Lukas: I have one small comment just to
kind of lay some ground work.
If you notice that property binding is
from the component to the template, and
the event is from the template to
the component, you can start to think of
those as, essentially, because they're
unidirectional, as input and output.
So start to think about
those relationships,
because once we get into smart and
dumb components,
we'll start to leverage this quite heavily
with the input and output metadata.
And basically saying I'm putting this
thing in and I'm binding to it, or
when something happens I want to surface
it and I want to get it back out.
So, probably bindings, event bindings
are kind of the foundation of
creating well-encapsulated
components via input and
output.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
if you come from React, you can think
of it as the property is just like,
I'm passing it some stuff
to this component, and
the event handlers is here's a function of
I want to happen when this event happens.
Very similar.
Whereas the property actually goes
a step further and bind to the dom.
But as far as passing it to components,
it's very similar.
>> Scott Moss: All right.
So, interpolation.
It's really not that new from Angular 1.
But, so, this is gonna allow us to
bind to component properties in and
out of the template.
Define with the curly braces,
curly brace syntax.
We can bind to methods as well.
And Angular coverts interpolation
to property binding.
So that, the sweet thing about
interpolation is that it uses a JavaScript
like syntax.
It's not full JavaScript.
We can't use all valid
JavaScript in interpolation.
For instance, the bitwise operators
like python N, we can't use those.
Why?
Because Angular uses pipes for pipes.
We don't get access to global namespaces,
so we can't do count to that log or
math.max.
We can't do that,
we don't get access to any of that.
Where the interpolation
is scoped in the context
of the component that it's in,
or a local variable.
So we don't get access,
you can't do all of JavaScript there.
But we can do pretty much,
inside those rules,
we can do pretty much any
expression that we want.
Does that make sense?
So any, other than those rules
that I was talking about,
we can do any valid
expression inside of here.
So an expression is just going to bind to
the target, it's gonna create a value.
That's what an expression does.